README.md, before:

# AI Knowledgebase

**Shared AI tools and instructions for everyone at ShipitSmarter.**

This repository contains ready-to-use AI skills, commands, and settings that work across all our projects. Whether you're writing code, creating designs, doing research, or building product strategy - these tools help AI assistants understand how we work.

---

## Getting Started by Role

Pick your guide:

| Role | Guide |
|------|-------|
| **Designer** | [AI Tools for Designers](docs/getting-started/designers.md) - Frontend design, UI quality commands |
| **Engineer** | [AI Tools for Engineers](docs/getting-started/engineers.md) - Vue, testing, GitHub workflow |
| **Analyst / Integration Specialist** | [AI Tools for Analysts](docs/getting-started/analysts.md) - Carrier data, troubleshooting |
| **Product** | [AI Tools for Product](docs/getting-started/product.md) - Strategy, documentation, user research |
| **Research** | [AI Tools for Research](docs/getting-started/research.md) - Finding information, citing sources |

Or keep reading for a quick overview.

---

## Quick Setup (2 minutes)

Run this in your terminal:

```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ShipitSmarter/ai-knowledgebase/main/tools/setup.sh | bash
```

Then restart your terminal. **That's it!** 

All skills and commands now work in any project folder.

---

## What's Included

### Skills (20 total)

Skills teach AI how to do specific tasks the ShipitSmarter way.

**General:**
| Skill | What it helps with |
|-------|-------------------|
| `research` | Finding information online and citing sources |
| `product-documentation` | Writing user guides for Viya |
| `product-strategy` | Creating strategy documents (Playing to Win) |
| `github-issue-creator` | Writing clear, focused GitHub issues |
| `github-issue-tracker` | Updating issues and project boards |
| `skill-writer` | Creating new skills for this repository |
| `designer` | Working with Penpot designs |
| `competitive-ads-extractor` | Analyzing competitor advertising |
| `frontend-design` | Creating distinctive UI that avoids AI slop |
| `github-workflow` | Pull requests and commits |
| `viya-dev-environment` | Managing local dev environment, testing PR builds |

**Frontend Development (viya-app, Vue/TypeScript):**  
*Located in `skills/frontend/`*

| Skill | What it helps with |
|-------|-------------------|
| `vue-component` | Writing Vue 3 components our way |
| `unit-testing` | Writing tests with Vitest |
| `playwright-test` | Writing E2E browser tests |
| `api-integration` | Working with our API types |
| `typescript-helpers` | TypeScript types and utilities |
| `codebase-navigation` | Understanding project structure |
| `docs-writing` | User-facing documentation |
| `pr-review` | Reviewing code |
| `browser-debug` | Debugging browser issues |
| `rates-feature` | Rates module development |

**App Structure (viya-app, viya-ui-warehouse):**  
*Located in `skills/structures/`*

| Skill | What it helps with |
|-------|-------------------|
| `viya-app-structure` | viya-app codebase structure |
| `viya-ui-warehouse-structure` | UI component library structure |

### Commands

Commands are shortcuts that start specific workflows.

**General:**
| Command | What it does |
|---------|-------------|
| `/research <topic>` | Research something and create a sourced document |
| `/document <topic>` | Write Viya user documentation |
| `/designer` | Start working with Penpot designs |
| `/product-strategy` | Create a product strategy document |
| `/test-pr <repo> <pr>` | Test a backend service PR in local dev environment |

**Design Quality (Impeccable):**
| Command | What it does |
|---------|-------------|
| `/i-audit` | Technical quality check (a11y, performance, responsive) |
| `/i-critique` | UX design review (hierarchy, clarity) |
| `/i-polish` | Final pass before shipping |
| `/i-simplify` | Remove unnecessary complexity |
| `/i-bolder` | Amplify boring designs |
| `/i-quieter` | Tone down aggressive designs |
| `/i-animate` | Add purposeful motion |
| `/i-colorize` | Add strategic color |
| `/i-delight` | Add moments of joy |
| `/i-harden` | Add error handling, i18n |
| `/i-optimize` | Improve performance |
| `/i-clarify` | Improve unclear UX copy |
| `/i-extract` | Pull into reusable components |
| `/i-adapt` | Adapt for different devices |
| `/i-onboard` | Design onboarding flows |
| `/i-normalize` | Align with design system |
| `/i-teach-impeccable` | Set up project design context |

---

## How It Works

### OpenCode (Terminal AI)

After setup, just run `opencode` in any project folder. Skills load automatically based on context.

**Load a skill explicitly:**
```
/skill vue-component
```

**Use a command:**
```
/research MongoDB pricing for small teams
```

### GitHub Copilot (VS Code)

Copilot requires instructions in each repository. Copy our shared instructions:

```bash
curl -fsSL -o .github/copilot-instructions.md \
  https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ShipitSmarter/ai-knowledgebase/main/copilot/copilot-instructions.md
git add .github/copilot-instructions.md && git commit -m "Add Copilot instructions"
```

---

## Keeping Up to Date

```bash
cd ~/.shipitsmarter/ai-knowledgebase && git pull
```

---

## Repository Structure

```
ai-knowledgebase/
├── .opencode/               # OpenCode configuration
│   ├── command/             # Slash commands (21 commands)
│   └── skill/               # Active skills
├── skills/                  # Skill definitions
│   ├── frontend/            # Vue/TypeScript frontend skills (12 skills)
│   └── ...                  # General skills (9 skills)
├── commands/                # Legacy command location
├── copilot/                 # Copilot instructions
├── docs/
│   ├── getting-started/     # Role-specific guides
│   └── repository-map.md    # All ShipitSmarter repositories explained
├── research/                # Research documents we've created
├── knowledgebase/           # Company context, personas
└── tools/                   # Setup and update scripts
```

**Looking for a specific repository?** See the [Repository Map](docs/repository-map.md) for a guide to all ~100 ShipitSmarter GitHub repos.

---

## Contributing

### Add a New Skill

1. Create a folder: `skills/my-skill-name/` (or `skills/frontend/my-skill-name/` for Vue/TypeScript skills)
2. Create `SKILL.md` inside with frontmatter:

```markdown
---
name: my-skill-name
description: One sentence explaining when to use this skill
---

# My Skill Name

Explain what this skill helps with...
```

3. Submit a pull request

**Need help?** Use `/skill skill-writer` for guidance.

---

## Troubleshooting

### "Skills aren't showing up"

Check that setup worked:
```bash
echo $OPENCODE_CONFIG_DIR
```

Should print something like `~/.shipitsmarter/ai-knowledgebase`. If empty, restart your terminal.

### "Commands don't work"

Same as above - check `$OPENCODE_CONFIG_DIR` and restart terminal.

### "Copilot ignores instructions"

1. Ensure `.github/copilot-instructions.md` exists and is committed
2. Restart VS Code

---

## Questions?

- Create an issue in this repository
- Ask in the team Slack
- Check the [role-specific guides](#getting-started-by-role) for detailed help

Commit message:

Add retro agent and update documentation with all agents

README.md, after:

# AI Knowledgebase

**Shared AI tools and instructions for everyone at ShipitSmarter.**

This repository contains ready-to-use AI skills, commands, and settings that work across all our projects. Whether you're writing code, creating designs, doing research, or building product strategy - these tools help AI assistants understand how we work.

---

## Getting Started by Role

Pick your guide:

| Role | Guide |
|------|-------|
| **Designer** | [AI Tools for Designers](docs/getting-started/designers.md) - Frontend design, UI quality commands |
| **Engineer** | [AI Tools for Engineers](docs/getting-started/engineers.md) - Vue, testing, GitHub workflow |
| **Analyst / Integration Specialist** | [AI Tools for Analysts](docs/getting-started/analysts.md) - Carrier data, troubleshooting |
| **Product** | [AI Tools for Product](docs/getting-started/product.md) - Strategy, documentation, user research |
| **Research** | [AI Tools for Research](docs/getting-started/research.md) - Finding information, citing sources |

Or keep reading for a quick overview.

---

## Quick Setup (2 minutes)

Run this in your terminal:

```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ShipitSmarter/ai-knowledgebase/main/tools/setup.sh | bash
```

Then restart your terminal. **That's it!** 

All skills and commands now work in any project folder.

---

## What's Included

### Skills (20 total)

Skills teach AI how to do specific tasks the ShipitSmarter way.

**General:**
| Skill | What it helps with |
|-------|-------------------|
| `research` | Finding information online and citing sources |
| `product-documentation` | Writing user guides for Viya |
| `product-strategy` | Creating strategy documents (Playing to Win) |
| `github-issue-creator` | Writing clear, focused GitHub issues |
| `github-issue-tracker` | Updating issues and project boards |
| `skill-writer` | Creating new skills for this repository |
| `designer` | Working with Penpot designs |
| `competitive-ads-extractor` | Analyzing competitor advertising |
| `frontend-design` | Creating distinctive UI that avoids AI slop |
| `github-workflow` | Pull requests and commits |
| `viya-dev-environment` | Managing local dev environment, testing PR builds |

**Frontend Development (viya-app, Vue/TypeScript):**  
*Located in `skills/frontend/`*

| Skill | What it helps with |
|-------|-------------------|
| `vue-component` | Writing Vue 3 components our way |
| `unit-testing` | Writing tests with Vitest |
| `playwright-test` | Writing E2E browser tests |
| `api-integration` | Working with our API types |
| `typescript-helpers` | TypeScript types and utilities |
| `codebase-navigation` | Understanding project structure |
| `docs-writing` | User-facing documentation |
| `pr-review` | Reviewing code |
| `browser-debug` | Debugging browser issues |
| `rates-feature` | Rates module development |

**App Structure (viya-app, viya-ui-warehouse):**  
*Located in `skills/structures/`*

| Skill | What it helps with |
|-------|-------------------|
| `viya-app-structure` | viya-app codebase structure |
| `viya-ui-warehouse-structure` | UI component library structure |

### Commands

Commands are shortcuts that start specific workflows.

**General:**
| Command | What it does |
|---------|-------------|
| `/research <topic>` | Research something and create a sourced document |
| `/document <topic>` | Write Viya user documentation |
| `/designer` | Start working with Penpot designs |
| `/product-strategy` | Create a product strategy document |
| `/test-pr <repo> <pr>` | Test a backend service PR in local dev environment |

**Design Quality (Impeccable):**
| Command | What it does |
|---------|-------------|
| `/i-audit` | Technical quality check (a11y, performance, responsive) |
| `/i-critique` | UX design review (hierarchy, clarity) |
| `/i-polish` | Final pass before shipping |
| `/i-simplify` | Remove unnecessary complexity |
| `/i-bolder` | Amplify boring designs |
| `/i-quieter` | Tone down aggressive designs |
| `/i-animate` | Add purposeful motion |
| `/i-colorize` | Add strategic color |
| `/i-delight` | Add moments of joy |
| `/i-harden` | Add error handling, i18n |
| `/i-optimize` | Improve performance |
| `/i-clarify` | Improve unclear UX copy |
| `/i-extract` | Pull into reusable components |
| `/i-adapt` | Adapt for different devices |
| `/i-onboard` | Design onboarding flows |
| `/i-normalize` | Align with design system |
| `/i-teach-impeccable` | Set up project design context |

### Agents

Agents are specialized personas for different types of work. Select an agent to change how AI approaches your task.

| Agent | What it's for |
|-------|---------------|
| `architect` | Technical planning, architecture reviews, infrastructure decisions. Critical and concise - asks "what's the simplest thing that could work?" |
| `senior-reviewer` | Thorough code review (Vue/TypeScript or C#/.NET). Analyzes full commit history, uncompromising on tests and types, educational feedback. |
| `retro` | Retrospectives on AI-assisted work. Analyzes what went wrong, identifies root causes with Five Whys, proposes improvements to skills/agents/commands. |
| `frontend` | Frontend development specialist for Vue/TypeScript work. |
| `research` | Research tasks without shell access (safer for exploration). |

---

## How It Works

### OpenCode (Terminal AI)

After setup, just run `opencode` in any project folder. Skills load automatically based on context.

**Load a skill explicitly:**
```
/skill vue-component
```

**Use a command:**
```
/research MongoDB pricing for small teams
```

### GitHub Copilot (VS Code)

Copilot requires instructions in each repository. Copy our shared instructions:

```bash
curl -fsSL -o .github/copilot-instructions.md \
  https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ShipitSmarter/ai-knowledgebase/main/copilot/copilot-instructions.md
git add .github/copilot-instructions.md && git commit -m "Add Copilot instructions"
```

---

## Keeping Up to Date

```bash
cd ~/.shipitsmarter/ai-knowledgebase && git pull
```

---

## Repository Structure

```
ai-knowledgebase/
├── .opencode/               # OpenCode configuration
│   ├── command/             # Slash commands (21 commands)
│   └── skill/               # Active skills
├── skills/                  # Skill definitions
│   ├── frontend/            # Vue/TypeScript frontend skills (12 skills)
│   └── ...                  # General skills (9 skills)
├── commands/                # Legacy command location
├── copilot/                 # Copilot instructions
├── docs/
│   ├── getting-started/     # Role-specific guides
│   └── repository-map.md    # All ShipitSmarter repositories explained
├── research/                # Research documents we've created
├── knowledgebase/           # Company context, personas
└── tools/                   # Setup and update scripts
```

**Looking for a specific repository?** See the [Repository Map](docs/repository-map.md) for a guide to all ~100 ShipitSmarter GitHub repos.

---

## Contributing

### Add a New Skill

1. Create a folder: `skills/my-skill-name/` (or `skills/frontend/my-skill-name/` for Vue/TypeScript skills)
2. Create `SKILL.md` inside with frontmatter:

```markdown
---
name: my-skill-name
description: One sentence explaining when to use this skill
---

# My Skill Name

Explain what this skill helps with...
```

3. Submit a pull request

**Need help?** Use `/skill skill-writer` for guidance.

---

## Troubleshooting

### "Skills aren't showing up"

Check that setup worked:
```bash
echo $OPENCODE_CONFIG_DIR
```

Should print something like `~/.shipitsmarter/ai-knowledgebase`. If empty, restart your terminal.

### "Commands don't work"

Same as above - check `$OPENCODE_CONFIG_DIR` and restart terminal.

### "Copilot ignores instructions"

1. Ensure `.github/copilot-instructions.md` exists and is committed
2. Restart VS Code

---

## Questions?

- Create an issue in this repository
- Ask in the team Slack
- Check the [role-specific guides](#getting-started-by-role) for detailed help
