skills/github-issue-tracker/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: github-issue-tracker
description: Update and maintain GitHub issues during development. Add progress comments, update project board status, handle blockers, link PRs, and close issues with summaries. Use when user asks to update an issue, change status, add a comment, or close an issue.
---

# GitHub Issue Tracker

Help engineers keep GitHub issues updated and stakeholders informed during development. Includes project board status management.

## Trigger

When user asks to:
- Update issue #X with progress
- Change issue status (In Progress, Blocked, Done, etc.)
- Add a comment to an issue
- Mark an issue as blocked or in progress
- Close an issue with a summary
- Link a PR to an issue
- Change issue labels or assignees

## Prerequisites

Requires GitHub CLI (`gh`) authenticated with project scope. See [GitHub Setup](../../opencode/github/SETUP.md).

```bash
# Add project scope (required for status updates)
gh auth refresh -s project
```

## Project Board

Issues are tracked on the **Viya Project Board**:
- **Organization**: ShipitSmarter
- **Project Number**: 10
- **Project ID**: `PVT_kwDOBLw3L84AWp6I`
- **URL**: https://github.com/orgs/ShipitSmarter/projects/10

### Project Status Values

| Status | Option ID | When to Use |
|--------|-----------|-------------|
| **TBD** | `7a21a9d6` | Needs triage/clarification |
| **NTH** | `712c3744` | Nice to have, low priority |
| **Parked** | `054d4b74` | On hold, not actively worked |
| **Todo** | `344a2867` | Ready to be picked up |
| **In Progress** | `47fc9ee4` | Actively being worked on |
| **Review** | `e631f3c2` | PR open, awaiting review |
| **Done** | `98236657` | Completed and merged |

### Project Field IDs

| Field | Field ID |
|-------|----------|
| Status | `PVTSSF_lADOBLw3L84AWp6IzgOerNk` |
| WBSO | `PVTSSF_lADOBLw3L84AWp6IzgSLhgM` |
| Customer | `PVTSSF_lADOBLw3L84AWp6Izgb1EuU` |
| Topics | `PVTSSF_lADOBLw3L84AWp6Izgqm4DY` |

## Process

### Step 1: Identify the Issue

Get the issue number and repository. If not provided, ask:
- What's the issue number?
- Which repository? (default to recent or ask)

Verify the issue exists:
```bash
gh issue view <number> --repo ShipitSmarter/<repo> --json title,state,labels
```

### Step 2: Determine Operation

| Operation | When to Use |
|-----------|-------------|
| **Update project status** | Change status in project board (In Progress, Done, etc.) |
| **Add comment** | Progress update, findings, questions |
| **Update labels** | Status change (wip, blocked) |
| **Edit body** | Add technical details or update requirements |
| **Close** | Work complete, with summary |
| **Reopen** | Issue needs more work |
| **Link PR** | Connect implementation to issue |

### Step 3: Execute Operation

#### Update Project Board Status

**Step 1: Find the project item ID for the issue**

```bash
gh api graphql -f query='
query {
  organization(login: "ShipitSmarter") {
    projectV2(number: 10) {
      items(last: 50) {
        nodes {
          id
          content {
            ... on Issue {
              number
              title
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}'
```

Look for the issue number in the output and note the `id` field (starts with `PVTI_`).

**Step 2: Update the status**

```bash
gh api graphql -f query='
mutation {
  updateProjectV2ItemFieldValue(
    input: {
      projectId: "PVT_kwDOBLw3L84AWp6I"
      itemId: "<ITEM_ID>"
      fieldId: "PVTSSF_lADOBLw3L84AWp6IzgOerNk"
      value: { singleSelectOptionId: "<STATUS_OPTION_ID>" }
    }
  ) {
    projectV2Item { id }
  }
}'
```

**Status Option IDs (copy-paste ready):**
- TBD: `7a21a9d6`
- NTH: `712c3744`
- Parked: `054d4b74`
- Todo: `344a2867`
- In Progress: `47fc9ee4`
- Review: `e631f3c2`
- Done: `98236657`

**Example: Set issue to "In Progress"**
```bash
gh api graphql -f query='
mutation {
  updateProjectV2ItemFieldValue(
    input: {
      projectId: "PVT_kwDOBLw3L84AWp6I"
      itemId: "PVTI_lADOBLw3L84AWp6Izgj5Jsw"
      fieldId: "PVTSSF_lADOBLw3L84AWp6IzgOerNk"
      value: { singleSelectOptionId: "47fc9ee4" }
    }
  ) {
    projectV2Item { id }
  }
}'
```

#### Add Progress Comment

```bash
gh issue comment <number> --repo ShipitSmarter/<repo> --body "$(cat <<'EOF'
### Progress Update

**Status**: In progress

**Completed**:
- [x] <what's done>

**Next**:
- [ ] <what's remaining>

**Notes**: <any findings or context>
EOF
)"
```

#### Add Blocker Comment

```bash
gh issue comment <number> --repo ShipitSmarter/<repo> --body "$(cat <<'EOF'
### Blocked

**Blocked by**: <reason or link to blocking issue>

**Impact**: <what this delays>

**Need**: <what's required to unblock>
EOF
)"
```

#### Add Question/Discussion Comment

```bash
gh issue comment <number> --repo ShipitSmarter/<repo> --body "$(cat <<'EOF'
### Question

<question or topic for discussion>

**Context**: <relevant background>

**Options**:
1. <option A>
2. <option B>

cc @<stakeholder>
EOF
)"
```

#### Update Labels

Add label:
```bash
gh issue edit <number> --repo ShipitSmarter/<repo> --add-label "wip"
```

Remove label:
```bash
gh issue edit <number> --repo ShipitSmarter/<repo> --remove-label "wip"
```

Common status labels:
| Label | Meaning |
|-------|---------|
| `wip` | Work in progress |
| `blocked` | Waiting on something |
| `discussion` | Needs feedback |

#### Edit Issue Body

```bash
gh issue edit <number> --repo ShipitSmarter/<repo> --body "<new body>"
```

Use this to:
- Add technical implementation notes
- Update requirements based on findings
- Add links to related resources

#### Close Issue

With comment:
```bash
gh issue close <number> --repo ShipitSmarter/<repo> --comment "$(cat <<'EOF'
### Completed

**PR**: #<pr-number>

**Summary**: <what was implemented>

**Notes**: <any follow-up items or caveats>
EOF
)"
```

Without comment:
```bash
gh issue close <number> --repo ShipitSmarter/<repo>
```

#### Reopen Issue

```bash
gh issue reopen <number> --repo ShipitSmarter/<repo>
```

Optionally add comment explaining why:
```bash
gh issue comment <number> --repo ShipitSmarter/<repo> --body "Reopening because <reason>"
```

#### Link PR to Issue

Option 1: In PR description, use closing keywords:
- `Fixes #<number>`
- `Closes #<number>`
- `Resolves #<number>`

Option 2: Add comment on issue:
```bash
gh issue comment <number> --repo ShipitSmarter/<repo> --body "Implementation PR: #<pr-number>"
```

Option 3: When creating PR:
```bash
gh pr create --title "feat: <title>" --body "Fixes #<number>"
```

### Step 4: Confirm Success

After executing, verify the update:
```bash
gh issue view <number> --repo ShipitSmarter/<repo> --json title,state,labels,comments --comments
```

## Comment Templates

### Progress Update
```markdown
### Progress Update

**Status**: In progress | Ready for review | Blocked

**Completed**:
- [x] Item 1
- [x] Item 2

**Remaining**:
- [ ] Item 3
- [ ] Item 4

**Notes**: <findings, decisions, or context>
```

### Blocker
```markdown
### Blocked

**Blocked by**: <issue link or external dependency>

**Impact**: <what this delays or affects>

**Need**: <what's required to unblock>

**ETA**: <when we expect to be unblocked>
```

### Technical Findings
```markdown
### Technical Notes

**Investigation**: <what was looked into>

**Findings**:
- <finding 1>
- <finding 2>

**Recommendation**: <proposed approach>

**Risks**: <potential issues to consider>
```

### Completion Summary
```markdown
### Completed

**PR**: #<number>

**What was done**:
- <change 1>
- <change 2>

**Testing**: <how it was verified>

**Notes**: <caveats, follow-ups, or documentation>
```

### Scope Change
```markdown
### Scope Update

**Original scope**: <what was planned>

**Change**: <what's being added/removed>

**Reason**: <why the change>

**Impact**: <effect on timeline or other work>

cc @<stakeholder>
```

## Output to User

After each operation:
1. Confirm what was done
2. Show link to updated issue
3. Remind to update project board status if needed
4. Note any warnings (e.g., label not found)

## Recommended Workflow

When starting work on an issue:
1. Update project status to "In Progress"
2. Add a comment noting you're starting

When blocked:
1. Update project status to "Blocked"
2. Add blocker comment with details

When PR is ready:
1. Update project status to "In Review"
2. Link PR to issue

When complete:
1. Close issue with summary comment
2. Project status auto-updates to "Done" when issue closes (if configured)

## Error Handling

**Issue not found:**
- Verify issue number and repository
- Check if issue was transferred or deleted

**Permission denied:**
- Verify repository access
- Check if issue is locked

**Label not found:**
- Skip adding that label
- Inform user of available labels

## Tool Reference

| Command | Purpose |
|---------|---------|
| `gh issue view <n>` | View issue details |
| `gh issue comment <n>` | Add comment |
| `gh issue edit <n>` | Edit title, body, labels |
| `gh issue close <n>` | Close issue |
| `gh issue reopen <n>` | Reopen issue |
| `gh issue list` | Find issues |
| `gh project item-list 10 --owner ShipitSmarter` | List project items |
| `gh project item-edit` | Update project item fields |
| `gh project field-list 10 --owner ShipitSmarter` | List project fields (Status, etc.) |

Commit message:

Add deployment workflow to issue tracker and copy viya-app skills for reference

skills/github-issue-tracker/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: github-issue-tracker
description: Update and maintain GitHub issues during development. Add progress comments, update project board status, handle blockers, link PRs, and close issues with summaries. Use when user asks to update an issue, change status, add a comment, or close an issue.
---

# GitHub Issue Tracker

Help engineers keep GitHub issues updated and stakeholders informed during development. Includes project board status management.

## Trigger

When user asks to:
- Update issue #X with progress
- Change issue status (In Progress, Blocked, Done, etc.)
- Add a comment to an issue
- Mark an issue as blocked or in progress
- Close an issue with a summary
- Link a PR to an issue
- Change issue labels or assignees

## Prerequisites

Requires GitHub CLI (`gh`) authenticated with project scope. See [GitHub Setup](../../opencode/github/SETUP.md).

```bash
# Add project scope (required for status updates)
gh auth refresh -s project
```

## Project Board

Issues are tracked on the **Viya Project Board**:
- **Organization**: ShipitSmarter
- **Project Number**: 10
- **Project ID**: `PVT_kwDOBLw3L84AWp6I`
- **URL**: https://github.com/orgs/ShipitSmarter/projects/10

### Project Status Values

| Status | Option ID | When to Use |
|--------|-----------|-------------|
| **TBD** | `7a21a9d6` | Needs triage/clarification |
| **NTH** | `712c3744` | Nice to have, low priority |
| **Parked** | `054d4b74` | On hold, not actively worked |
| **Todo** | `344a2867` | Ready to be picked up |
| **In Progress** | `47fc9ee4` | Actively being worked on |
| **Review** | `e631f3c2` | PR open, awaiting review |
| **Done** | `98236657` | Completed and merged |

### Project Field IDs

| Field | Field ID |
|-------|----------|
| Status | `PVTSSF_lADOBLw3L84AWp6IzgOerNk` |
| WBSO | `PVTSSF_lADOBLw3L84AWp6IzgSLhgM` |
| Customer | `PVTSSF_lADOBLw3L84AWp6Izgb1EuU` |
| Topics | `PVTSSF_lADOBLw3L84AWp6Izgqm4DY` |

## Process

### Step 1: Identify the Issue

Get the issue number and repository. If not provided, ask:
- What's the issue number?
- Which repository? (default to recent or ask)

Verify the issue exists:
```bash
gh issue view <number> --repo ShipitSmarter/<repo> --json title,state,labels
```

### Step 2: Determine Operation

| Operation | When to Use |
|-----------|-------------|
| **Update project status** | Change status in project board (In Progress, Done, etc.) |
| **Add comment** | Progress update, findings, questions |
| **Update labels** | Status change (wip, blocked) |
| **Edit body** | Add technical details or update requirements |
| **Close** | Work complete, with summary |
| **Reopen** | Issue needs more work |
| **Link PR** | Connect implementation to issue |

### Step 3: Execute Operation

#### Update Project Board Status

**Step 1: Find the project item ID for the issue**

```bash
gh api graphql -f query='
query {
  organization(login: "ShipitSmarter") {
    projectV2(number: 10) {
      items(last: 50) {
        nodes {
          id
          content {
            ... on Issue {
              number
              title
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}'
```

Look for the issue number in the output and note the `id` field (starts with `PVTI_`).

**Step 2: Update the status**

```bash
gh api graphql -f query='
mutation {
  updateProjectV2ItemFieldValue(
    input: {
      projectId: "PVT_kwDOBLw3L84AWp6I"
      itemId: "<ITEM_ID>"
      fieldId: "PVTSSF_lADOBLw3L84AWp6IzgOerNk"
      value: { singleSelectOptionId: "<STATUS_OPTION_ID>" }
    }
  ) {
    projectV2Item { id }
  }
}'
```

**Status Option IDs (copy-paste ready):**
- TBD: `7a21a9d6`
- NTH: `712c3744`
- Parked: `054d4b74`
- Todo: `344a2867`
- In Progress: `47fc9ee4`
- Review: `e631f3c2`
- Done: `98236657`

**Example: Set issue to "In Progress"**
```bash
gh api graphql -f query='
mutation {
  updateProjectV2ItemFieldValue(
    input: {
      projectId: "PVT_kwDOBLw3L84AWp6I"
      itemId: "PVTI_lADOBLw3L84AWp6Izgj5Jsw"
      fieldId: "PVTSSF_lADOBLw3L84AWp6IzgOerNk"
      value: { singleSelectOptionId: "47fc9ee4" }
    }
  ) {
    projectV2Item { id }
  }
}'
```

#### Add Progress Comment

```bash
gh issue comment <number> --repo ShipitSmarter/<repo> --body "$(cat <<'EOF'
### Progress Update

**Status**: In progress

**Completed**:
- [x] <what's done>

**Next**:
- [ ] <what's remaining>

**Notes**: <any findings or context>
EOF
)"
```

#### Add Blocker Comment

```bash
gh issue comment <number> --repo ShipitSmarter/<repo> --body "$(cat <<'EOF'
### Blocked

**Blocked by**: <reason or link to blocking issue>

**Impact**: <what this delays>

**Need**: <what's required to unblock>
EOF
)"
```

#### Add Question/Discussion Comment

```bash
gh issue comment <number> --repo ShipitSmarter/<repo> --body "$(cat <<'EOF'
### Question

<question or topic for discussion>

**Context**: <relevant background>

**Options**:
1. <option A>
2. <option B>

cc @<stakeholder>
EOF
)"
```

#### Update Labels

Add label:
```bash
gh issue edit <number> --repo ShipitSmarter/<repo> --add-label "wip"
```

Remove label:
```bash
gh issue edit <number> --repo ShipitSmarter/<repo> --remove-label "wip"
```

Common status labels:
| Label | Meaning |
|-------|---------|
| `wip` | Work in progress |
| `blocked` | Waiting on something |
| `discussion` | Needs feedback |

#### Edit Issue Body

```bash
gh issue edit <number> --repo ShipitSmarter/<repo> --body "<new body>"
```

Use this to:
- Add technical implementation notes
- Update requirements based on findings
- Add links to related resources

#### Close Issue

> **Important**: Only close issues after the PR is deployed to production, not just when merged. Move to "Review" status while awaiting deployment.

With comment:
```bash
gh issue close <number> --repo ShipitSmarter/<repo> --comment "$(cat <<'EOF'
### Completed

**PR**: #<pr-number>
**Deployed**: <date or environment>

**Summary**: <what was implemented>

**Notes**: <any follow-up items or caveats>
EOF
)"
```

Without comment:
```bash
gh issue close <number> --repo ShipitSmarter/<repo>
```

#### Reopen Issue

```bash
gh issue reopen <number> --repo ShipitSmarter/<repo>
```

Optionally add comment explaining why:
```bash
gh issue comment <number> --repo ShipitSmarter/<repo> --body "Reopening because <reason>"
```

#### Link PR to Issue

Option 1: In PR description, use closing keywords:
- `Fixes #<number>`
- `Closes #<number>`
- `Resolves #<number>`

Option 2: Add comment on issue:
```bash
gh issue comment <number> --repo ShipitSmarter/<repo> --body "Implementation PR: #<pr-number>"
```

Option 3: When creating PR:
```bash
gh pr create --title "feat: <title>" --body "Fixes #<number>"
```

### Step 4: Confirm Success

After executing, verify the update:
```bash
gh issue view <number> --repo ShipitSmarter/<repo> --json title,state,labels,comments --comments
```

## Comment Templates

### Progress Update
```markdown
### Progress Update

**Status**: In progress | Ready for review | Blocked

**Completed**:
- [x] Item 1
- [x] Item 2

**Remaining**:
- [ ] Item 3
- [ ] Item 4

**Notes**: <findings, decisions, or context>
```

### Blocker
```markdown
### Blocked

**Blocked by**: <issue link or external dependency>

**Impact**: <what this delays or affects>

**Need**: <what's required to unblock>

**ETA**: <when we expect to be unblocked>
```

### Technical Findings
```markdown
### Technical Notes

**Investigation**: <what was looked into>

**Findings**:
- <finding 1>
- <finding 2>

**Recommendation**: <proposed approach>

**Risks**: <potential issues to consider>
```

### Completion Summary
```markdown
### Completed

**PR**: #<number>
**Deployed**: <date or environment>

**What was done**:
- <change 1>
- <change 2>

**Testing**: <how it was verified>

**Notes**: <caveats, follow-ups, or documentation>
```

### Scope Change
```markdown
### Scope Update

**Original scope**: <what was planned>

**Change**: <what's being added/removed>

**Reason**: <why the change>

**Impact**: <effect on timeline or other work>

cc @<stakeholder>
```

## Output to User

After each operation:
1. Confirm what was done
2. Show link to updated issue
3. Remind to update project board status if needed
4. Note any warnings (e.g., label not found)

## Recommended Workflow

When starting work on an issue:
1. Update project status to "In Progress"
2. Add a comment noting you're starting

When blocked:
1. Update project status to "Blocked"
2. Add blocker comment with details

When PR is ready:
1. Update project status to "Review"
2. Link PR to issue
3. **Do NOT close the issue yet** - wait for deployment

When PR is merged and deployed:
1. Update project status to "Done"
2. Close issue with summary comment

**Important**: Issues should only be closed after the PR is deployed to production, not just when the PR is merged. This ensures we can track issues back to deployed features.

## Error Handling

**Issue not found:**
- Verify issue number and repository
- Check if issue was transferred or deleted

**Permission denied:**
- Verify repository access
- Check if issue is locked

**Label not found:**
- Skip adding that label
- Inform user of available labels

## Tool Reference

| Command | Purpose |
|---------|---------|
| `gh issue view <n>` | View issue details |
| `gh issue comment <n>` | Add comment |
| `gh issue edit <n>` | Edit title, body, labels |
| `gh issue close <n>` | Close issue |
| `gh issue reopen <n>` | Reopen issue |
| `gh issue list` | Find issues |
| `gh project item-list 10 --owner ShipitSmarter` | List project items |
| `gh project item-edit` | Update project item fields |
| `gh project field-list 10 --owner ShipitSmarter` | List project fields (Status, etc.) |
